Hi guys we're moving on to dynamoDB now.
Now there's a lot to DynamoDB but what I want to talk to you about today are really these features
that are on the screen now in this table.
There's a lot more to it but certainly for the scope of the architecture exam I believe these are the
features that you really need to understand and if you're doing the dev ops exam you'll find it's very
different.
There's a lot more coverage of DynamoDB and you have to get in a lot more detail.
But for an architecture exam it's more about understanding these features because this is what you need
to know when you're designing the broader solution.
So let's start going through this table.
So to start with Dynamo IDB service and what that really means to you is that there's no instances to
manage so unlike hard yes where you actually have to provision an instance and that instance is managed
for you.
But there are certain things that have to happen for instance you need to be able to do patching on
that instance.
So you have your maintenance windows and patching is done and it can be automated but you do sometimes
need to reboot that instance and that means downtime for your database.
And obviously you can use read replicas and you can use multi AZ to make sure that you still have a
database running but still there is some downtime.
You don't have to worry about any of that with DynamoDB.
It's totally service fully managed fault tolerance.
So it scales very easily without you having to worry about changing instance sizes and the availability
is very high.
So the availability is four nines SLA and we've global tables which is at the bottom here we're going
to talk about that shortly you get five nines SLA say for an availability SLA.
That's really really high now as we talked about back at the beginning of the section in the database
overview dynamoDB is a NoSQL type of database.
So it's ideal for you use cases where you need a flexible schema and your data is not well structured
or unpredictable dynamoDB offers horizontal scaling.
So you can scale seamlessly.
And that really does mean push button.
Now we say push button for instance with RDS as well meaning that you can you can just go in and sort
of change your instance size and press a button and you've scaled your instance.
But of course that incurs downtime with DynamoDB. That's not the case
You actually put in your read and write units and that's how you scale dynamoDB. Specify the amount
of units of read and write that you want to assign.
You can also now use auto scaling.
This has been around for several months so you can have that take place automatically without having
to specify specific values yourself.
We then have dynamoDB streams and if you remember back in the lambda section of the course we actually
set up some DynamoDB streams so that we could trigger functions in lambda when events happen.
For instance when you added a item to a table it triggered an event and lambda which then executed a
function so it captures a time ordered sequence of item level modifications in a dynamodb table and
stores that information for up to 24 hours.
So as I mentioned and as we went through in the serverless section of the course with Lambda we've used
this to create lambda triggers and you can also use of the Kinesis client library as well.
So those were a couple of ways.
It's often use this there's more options in that as well.
We then have dynamoDB accelerator.
So this is a in memory cache for DynamoDB and we're actually going to create a dynamoDB acelerator
cluster in a couple of labs time so the key thing here is about microsecond latency if you see something
on the exam about microsecond latency then that might push you towards accelerator for transaction options
you get strongly consistent or eventually consistent read.
So there's a couple of different options there and you have different cost associated with them.
You probably don't need to know too much about this for this exam you just need to know that this exists.
You don't need to know how to calculate the cost or how many units of each that you need to assign.
That's more of a devops thing.
You also need to know that it supports ACID transactions for backup.
You can enable point-in-time recovery which takes you down to the last second for the last 35 days
so that means you can restore your database back to a specific point in time within the last 45
days and then you also have a separate phone which is on demand backup and restore what we then have
it's global tables.
So this is the one I mentioned before has a five nines SLA for availability and this is a fully managed
multi region multi master solution.
So this means you can have databases where you can have the same table in multiple regions around the
world and you're able to read and write so those tables and all the data become synchronized across
the multiple tables around the world.
So really great feature we're going to set that up as well.
Later in this section.
So that's set for a quick overview in the next lab.
We're just going to create a simple table and add some items to it and then after that we're going to
go and enable DynamoDB accelerator and test that out and then the first lab will be global tables.